British PM David Cameron takes China's Xi Jinping to traditional British pub for beers, fish and chips 
Updated October 23, 2015 19:22:54 
Map: United Kingdom 
After three days of formalities, UK prime minister David Cameron has taken China's president Xi Jinping to a traditional British pub for a beer and some fish and chips. 
The two world leaders, in suits without ties, could be seen awkwardly sipping their ales at The Plough, northwest of London. 
"I dropped into The Plough at Cadsden for a pint of IPA and some fish and chips with China's President Xi," Mr Cameron later tweeted, along with a picture of them. 
The pub's landlord Steve Hollings said the two leaders had chatted for around three-quarters of an hour and had been "extremely friendly". 
"I was highly delighted," he said. 
British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond was quoted by the Daily Telegraph as saying that Mr Xi's "only problem" was the lack of salt and vinegar for his fish and chips. 
The Sunday Times earlier reported that the trip to the pub was the Chinese president's idea and cited a source involved in negotiations over the visit saying, "It's all part of the president's view of himself as a man of the people". 
The Plough traces its history back to the 16th century, when it was a staging post for London coaches. 
Mr Cameron also jokingly referred to an incident in 2012 when he mistakenly left his eight-year-old daughter in the same pub following a Sunday lunch, telling locals, "I'm not leaving my family here today, I'm not making that mistake again." 
Cameron has hailed a "golden era" in relations with China, as he pitches Britain as the pre-eminent Western gateway for investment from China. 
Britain has laid on its highest level of diplomatic charm for the Chinese delegation, including an audience with Queen Elizabeth. 
However, the warmth of the reception for Mr Xi  has raised some eyebrows with allies and drawn criticism that London is ignoring China's human rights record. 
Flights between China and Manchester 
Mr Xi's state visit to Britain will end on Friday with the announcement of new air links between China and Manchester — the northern English city at the heart of efforts to rebalance the British economy. 
The two leaders will go on a tour of the city designed to attract Chinese infrastructure investment, at the end of a four-day visit that sealed $US62 billion of business deals. 
Britain is courting Chinese involvement in 24 billion pounds of investment projects in the UK's north, as part of its plan to regenerate the region. 
Hainan Airlines will announce the first direct flights between Manchester and China — a deal which Britain said could boost the city's economy by 50 million pounds. 
Mr Xi, a football fan, will travel to Manchester's airport after a meeting with local government representatives and businesses. 
His visit will also include a trip to a football academy run by Manchester City and a tour of the National Football Museum. 
Partnerships to build and finance the regeneration of parts of the city will also be agreed, plus the finalisation of Hong Kong firm Netdragon Websoft's 85-million-pound acquisition of educational supplies company Promethean World. 
AFP/ Reuters 
First posted October 23, 2015 12:48:58 
Top Stories 
