By political reporter Eliza Borrello 
Updated October 22, 2015 15:06:58 
Map: Australia 
The next Thor and Alien movies will be produced in Australia, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has announced. 
Australian actor Chris Hemsworth will resume his superhero role in Thor, while Alien: Paradise Lost will bring acclaimed creator Ridley Scott to Australia. 
Ms Bishop said production would begin next year. 
Photo: The 1979 big screen hit Alien established Ridley Scott as a commercially successful film director. (IMDB: Twentieth Century Fox/Robert Penn) 
"During recent visits to both Los Angeles and New York, I met with senior executives of major film and production houses, with Walt Disney Company, Marvel, 20th Century Fox, Warner Brothers, Village Roadshow, NBC Universal and directors Ridley Scott and Brett Ratner, who all expressed a very keen desire to invest in significant new film production projects right here in Australia," she said. 
"They specifically spoke about the value in Australia as a filming destination, the quality and variety of our locations, but more importantly our highly qualified and talented workforce, our embrace of innovative technology, our stable economy, our dollar, all this makes Australia an attractive destination." 
Ms Bishop said the production houses were yet to announce the exact locations of the productions. 
"But I particularly wanted to thank my ministerial colleagues Steve Ciobo, Stu Roberts and Karen Andrews, because they have been fierce advocates for more film production and post production opportunities for the Gold Coast," she said. 
"Sir Ridley Scott told me he knows the Fox Studios very well and knows New South Wales well, so we're hoping for some good news there." 
Arts Minister Mitch Fifield praised Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's efforts in securing the productions. 
"The PM has taken a minute-by-minute interest in this venture," he said. 
"He was determined to see that this would be landed, and I think the announcement that we are making today is a concrete example of what the PM means when he talks about the agility of government, the agility of industry, to support innovation and to deliver jobs." 
