By Jessica Hinchliffe 
Updated May 19, 2015 13:38:26 
Map: Brisbane 4000 
A former NASA astronaut has encouraged Queensland students to look towards science, technology and maths subjects as a pathway to the field of space exploration. 
Dr Sandra Magnus, the head of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, addressed a public seminar at Griffith University in Brisbane last night. 
The charismatic astronaut flew five missions for NASA, logged 157 days in orbit, and lived for more than four months on the International Space Station. 
While in Australia, Dr Magnus has conducted a series of talks highlighting the importance of STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) fields. 
Dr Magnus, who wanted to be an astronaut while still in primary school, said it was never too young for students to think about going into space. 
"I was 11 or 12 when I dreamed of flying in space but I think it's something people naturally do, they look up to the sky and dream of going up there," she told ABC Local Radio Queensland's David Curnow . 
"My parents were very supportive of all of us and encouraged us to follow our dreams; I suspect when I actually got the call for the job they were shocked." 
The path to NASA 
Born and raised in Illinois, Dr Magnus attended the Missouri University of Science and Technology, graduating in 1986 with a degree in physics and in 1990 with a Masters in electrical engineering. 
She went on to work on stealth technology in aircraft and completed a PhD in material science and engineering, before applying to NASA in 1996. 
"Every two years during the shuttle era NASA would make a call out, accepting applications for astronauts, so after I had work experience I did my PhD and I was 31," she said. 
"At the time I called the Space Centre and got their switchboard and I asked for an application and that was it. 
"The first two years is all training, shuttle systems, space walking, public speaking, photography, physical science ... there is a bit of everything in the first two years of training." 
Photo: Dr Sandra Magnus in the observatory module of the International Space Station during a mission in 2010. (Wikipedia: NASA) 
First time in space 
Dr Magnus was 36 years old when she first flew in space as part of Space Shuttle Atlantis, and said it was an exciting and nerve racking day. 
"Finally I was there on the launch pad ... my assignment for the mission was the flight engineer where and you sit behind the pilot and the commander and keep check on the systems," she said. 
"My brain was split in two that day as I was very focused on that job but then a part of me was the 11-year-old girl so excited to be going into space." 
The mission did not start well when a malfunction occurring during the launch sequence. 
It is spectacular to look out the window and see the earth go by. 
Dr Sandra Mangus, former NASA astronaut 
"There are four big hold down bolts on each rocket booster and there are two lines of pyrotechnics and the bolts break to separate from the launch pad cleanly," she said. 
"If it doesn't light, you still separate but your rocket rips apart and you go out of control ... apparently it can survive one bolt not firing but not two. 
"One of the strings of pyrotechnics failed when we launched. 
"The other system worked but it was an eye-opener. We were one failure away from ripping off the launch pad." 
Dr Magnus said it took her many years to tell her mother about the failure. 
"We all know the risks with a job like this, some things in life you can't control, like a friend in a car accident – you can't control that," she said. 
"It's no different than that, it is just more dramatic when you're in a space vehicle. 
"It's easy for me to do the job as I believe in it, but I had control. For my family they had no choice and that is always harder, it is harder on the families." 
Challenges living on a space station 
The International Space Station was home for Dr Magnus for four-and-a-half months. 
She said the station was huge, "about the length of a football field", and the view from it amazing. 
"It is spectacular to look out the window and see the earth go by," Dr Magnus said. 
Photo: Dr Sandra Magnus hopes to encourage young Australians to look towards space during their studies. (Wikipedia: NASA) 
Dr Magnus said the biggest challenge in space was "keeping track of stuff". 
"Imagine moving into a house that had been lived in for 20 years by people you didn't know and they had put things away in nooks and crannies [and] you didn't know where it was," she said. 
"Storage and keeping track of it is only as good as the people who use it, so finding things is a challenge." 
Dr Magnus said the question she was asked most was – "how does a toilet works in space?" 
"Air flow is a mechanism that works really well, think of a vacuum cleaner," Dr Magnus explained. 
"There is a funnel and a hose attached to the tank and you turn on the switch and you urinate into the funnel. 
"It then gets collected into a tank and then a water re-generation system recycles dirty water and urine into potable water." 
Dr Magnus said faecal matter was not recycled but was collected into large containers and burnt up in the atmosphere. 
Advice for future astronauts 
Dr Magnus tells young people interested in the field, to follow their dreams and use their passion. 
"If you find your passion and dream, go after it and follow that passion," she said. 
"I think it is really important for all young people, and not only girls, to have opportunities to expand their horizons so that they can see the possibilities for their future. 
"It is hard to imagine a future as a young person without some exposure to the possibilities. They don't know what they don't know. Also they need to be encouraged to believe in themselves and dream." 
