Map: Bunbury 6230 
The Western Australian Government has ruled out the possibility of hydraulic fracking being undertaken on a large parcel of agricultural land in WA's south-west. 
Chinese-owned company Bunbury Energy, formerly known as Unconventional Resources, is hoping to explore an area between Bunbury, Capel and Donnybrook for oil and gas. 
At the time, Mines Minister Bill Marmion told the ABC fracking was possible, but would be a secondary consideration because of the cost involved. 
However, executive director of the department's petroleum division, Jeff Haworth, has now ruled out that possibility. 
He said previous surveys indicated the geology of the area was not suitable for the hydraulic fracking process and it would actually inhibit the extraction of gas. 
"Calling themselves Unconventional Resources was an unfortunate name, but certainly they had no intentions of looking at hydraulic fracturing because, as I say, the geology is not conducive to do that," he said. 
"Bunbury Energy is actually looking for conventional gas resources, they never had any intentions to do hydraulic fracturing." 
Mr Haworth said the company still needed to obtain native title approval before it could secure an exploration licence and conduct seismic surveys. 
"Part of that process is actually talking to the landowner and getting the landowner's agreement to access their land and their property," he said. 
"We are telling ... the company they should be talking to local shires anyway, to let them know what their program is and what their intentions are." 
Anti-fracking protesters claim victory 
No Fracking in Southwest WA campaign group spokeswoman Carly Stone said she believed the company's decision was influenced by strong community backlash. 
"We are pleased that they've changed their tune on fracking in light of strong community opposition, but we still hold the same position on the entire issue," she said. 
"The whole proposal is not transparent at all, we don't know what is going to happen. 
"We don't think there should be a licence to develop fossil fuels in an environmentally sensitive region that's already quite densely populated. 
"Our region is a biodiversity hotspot for tourism, agriculture and renewable energy. 
"The development of fossil fuels is not supported here by anybody." 
