Hospital: Second person dead in Sweden sword attack 01:29 
Story highlights 
Police spokeswoman says attacker picked victims according to ethnicity 
Attacker, shot by police, dies at hospital 
A teacher and student were killed; another student and another teacher were injured 
(CNN) 
The attack on a school in Sweden in which a student and a teacher were killed was motivated by racism, police have told CNN. 
A police spokeswoman said the conclusion was reached because of the way the attacker chose his victims and due to things  that police found in his home. 
In addition, police considered "the way he dressed and behaved but also how he picked his victims, who had a specific ethnic background," the spokeswoman said. 
She did not elaborate. Police had previously said they were looking into the "attacker's possible links to right-wing organizations." 
The man, masked and wielding a sword or a knife, killed two people Thursday morning at a school in Trollhattan, before police shot him dead, authorities said. 
Read More 
Two others -- another teacher and student -- were wounded in the attack on the Kronan primary and middle school. The injured were reported to be in serious condition at the hospital in Trollhattan, hospital officials said. 
"This is a dark day for Sweden," Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said on Thursday. "My thoughts go out to the victims and their families, pupils and staff, and the entire community that has been affected. There are no words to describe what they are going through right now." 
Law enforcement officials said police shot the suspect at the scene and he died later at the hospital. 
Posing with students before attack? 
AFP received this photo purportedly showing a masked man with students. 
An unidentified student gave Agence France-Presse a photo purportedly showing a masked man -- allegedly the person who would commit the attack -- posing with students at the school Thursday morning, AFP reported. The photo shows the man wearing a helmet and holding what appears to be a blade. 
The student told AFP the photo was taken before the attack; the precise timing of the photo was not immediately known. 
A student identified as Edona told Sweden's TV4 that students first thought the man, who was wearing a mask and black clothes, was playing a Halloween joke. 
He was "walking like a soldier, kind of, with a sword in his hand," the student said. 
But when the man began attacking, the students reacted with horror. 
"We were pretty shocked, all of us," Edona said. 
Police: 'We fired two shots' 
Police received an alarm call shortly after 10 a.m. "that a masked man in his 20s had entered the school ... carrying knife-like weapons in his hands, attacking students and adults at the school," police spokesman Thomas Fuxborg said. "We fired two shots, one of which hit and incapacitated the man so that we could arrest him." 
Fuxborg said officers found an injured man outside the school and a dead man just inside. 
On the second floor, officers found two students who had been wounded in the attack, Fuxborg said. 
Police evacuated the school. 
Police spokeswoman Jenny Widen said the two people killed were both male -- a teacher born in 1973 and a student born in 2000. 
The alleged perpetrator was born in 1994, she said. 
'Tracks of blood' 
Thord Haraldsson, police superintendent in Vastra Gotaland County, told reporters the assailant first attacked a teacher outside the school. 
"Then he enters the building and meets another one that he attacks," Haraldsson said. "... Then he systematically searches the school building. We can follow tracks of blood in the premises. 
"He walks to the classrooms, knocks on the door, and when (a) pupil opens the door, he is attacked ... stabbed at the spot. 
"This happens in two different classrooms, and one of (the attacked students) is now deceased." 
Trollhattan is about 420 kilometers (260 miles) west-southwest of Stockholm, the Swedish capital. 
CNN's  Margot Haddad, Richard Morris, Lindsay Isaac, Vasco Cotovio, Jim Stenman, Jason Hanna and Hande Atay contributed to this report. 
<div id="ad_rect_atf_01" class="ad-ad_rect_atf_01 ad-refresh-adtop"></div> 
More from Europe 
