Contractor claims he was exposed to asbestos during work on a South Coast defence project 
Ainslie Drewitt-Smith 
Updated October 21, 2015 17:05:40 
Map: Wollongong 2500 
A contract plumber has spoken out after he was exposed to asbestos while working on a development at HMAS Albatross on the South Coast. 
Dave Ahrens was employed by Axis Plumbing to cut pipes, as part of the new Helicopter Aircrew Training System (HATS) being built on the naval air station near Nowra. 
He claims the asbestos was discovered in August after developer, Lend Lease, had the pipes swabbed. 
However Mr Ahrens said workers weren't told the result of the tests until September. 
"My biggest concern is did I bring it home, and the timeframe," he said. 
"We cut it on the 16th [August], I bought my clothes home, chucked it in the laundry with everyone else's and two weeks later we get a result. 
"It was tested on the 24th [August] and positive on the same day, and then [the result] sat on the shelf for five days until September 1st," Mr Ahrens said. 
He's slammed Lend Lease and the Department of Defence for not acting sooner to protect workers. 
"They knew where we were working, and the footprint of the building. Why wasn't it checked." 
"I would like to know why we were put in there and exposed. 
"There was five or six areas within this HATS project that we had dug, cutting off water mains, capped them and we were walking around freely. 
"But after Comcare arrived there was all exclusions zones and no one was allowed in there and all of the areas got remediated," Mr Ahrens said. 
A SafeWork NSW spokesperson has confirmed Mr Ahren's allegations. 
"An investigation found that workers were exposed to low levels of asbestos while cutting underground pipes that contained bonded asbestos during remediation works on the site," the SafeWork NSW Spokesperson said. 
"An occupational hygienist conducted sample testing which returned a positive result for asbestos containing material, however air monitoring at the site returned a negative result for asbestos fibres. 
"Worker's vehicles were also tested and no asbestos was found. 
"All workers involved in the incident received health monitoring by a registered health professional and they have been encouraged to register on the National Asbestos Exposure Register," the spokesperson said. 
SafeWork NSW has also said it will continue to monitor the situation, "to ensure the systems of work used by the principal contractor are appropriate." 
Comcare said it is also aware of the incident at HMAS Albatross. 
A spokesperson for Comcare said it was notified of the incident by the Department of Defence and has conducted a workplace inspection. 
A spokesperson for Lend Lease said there is no ongoing risk or imminent threat to the workers on the site. 
"Comcare and SafeWork (NSW) both determined that the processes and procedures in place at the time of the incident complied with the Work Health and Safety Act 2011 and the Work Health and Safety Regulations 2011." 
The Department of Defence said it was aware of the matter. 
"Defence's contractors are required to comply with all relevant State and Federal Legislation," a spokesperson said. 
"Comcare and SafeWork (NSW) investigations regarding this incident confirmed that Lend Lease has complied with the relevant WHS Act and Regulations." 
The ABC has sought a response from Axis Plumbing. 
