Floriade NightFest kicks off in Canberra, with 100,000 lights illuminating the garden beds 
Updated September 23, 2015 19:38:12 
Map: Canberra 2600 
As the sun sets tonight, Canberra's Commonwealth Park will come alive for the eighth annual Floriade NightFest. 
Around 100,000 light bulbs, including 1,500 handmade lanterns have been installed across the park to transform the garden beds into a sea of lights for the next five nights. 
External Link: A light installation on Lake Burley Griffin is one of the highlights of this year's Floriade Nightfest. 
Lighting designer Richard Neville said it took a crew of six about a month to put all the installations together. 
"It is a labour of love, we have got lights in the lake this year, lights high up in trees ... so it is a pretty long and involved process," he said. 
"[For a month] the team have worked all night, they start at 5:00pm and finish at 5:00am." 
Each year the lighting team start from scratch to develop new ideas to wow the crowds. 
"Every year there is different lights, completely different looks," Mr Neville said. 
"So where you might of seen a big installation last year, this year it might be something nice and static. 
"Every year we try pick a new area of the park to try and feature and do a major installation." 
'A chance to see the park in a new light' 
Photo: Floriade Nightfest lighting designer Richard Neville, from Sydney company Mandylights, helped put this year's festival together. (ABC News: Tegan Osborne) 
Mr Neville said this year's motif tied in with Floriade's theme of Reflection. 
"In the past we have had really big and flashy installations, but this year we wanted to pull it back a little bit and create something that was really beautiful," he said. 
This year we wanted to pull it back a little bit and create something that was really beautiful ... the chance to reinvent it is quite cool. 
Richard Neville 
"A couple of the major areas of the park have these really fantastic installations that take a long time to evolve throughout the night." 
A major feature of this year's festival is a giant mirrored flower surrounded by 48 search lights in Narang Pool. 
"The great thing about Nightfest is its a chance to see the park in a new light," Mr Neville said. 
"You have a month of days where you can come and see the flowers under white sunlight, so for us the chance to reinvent it is quite cool." 
Along with light installations, Nightfest will also host a line up of entertainment events such as comedy acts, circus acts, UV Dance party and a silent disco. 
Close to 35,000 visitors attended Nightfest last year. 
Nightfest runs from Wednesday until Sunday. 
