Sky News - 24 minutes ago 
US Special Operator Killed Saving IS Hostages 
By Sky News US Team | Sky News –  11 hours ago 
View Photo 
Sky News - US Special Operator Killed Saving IS Hostages 
An American special forces operator has been killed in a raid on an Islamic State prison in northern Iraq - the first US servicemen to die in ground combat against the extremist group. 
About 70 hostages were freed and "a number" of IS militants were killed in the early morning raid near Hawija, Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook said in a statement. 
The operation was launched "after receiving information that the hostages faced imminent mass execution", he said. 
The US operator died despite receiving medical care after being wounded during the mission. 
In a statement, US Centcom commander General Lloyd Austin said: "We commend and congratulate the brave individuals who participated in this successful operation that saved many lives, and we deeply mourn the loss of one of our own who died while supporting his Iraqi comrades engaged in a tough fight." 
The identity of the American service member killed has not been released. 
Mr Cook said four Peshmerga soldiers were also wounded during the raid, which US forces took part in at the request of the Kurdistan Regional Government. 
He insisted that American involvement in the operation did not mark a change in US tactics in the fight against IS. 
"I would not suggest that this is something that is now going to happen on a regular basis, but I do think it is symbolic of the kinds of efforts that we are taking on behalf of our partners," Mr Cook told reporters. 
A senior US defence source told Fox News most of the freed prisoners were Iraqi security forces. 
"People were chained to walls," the official said. 
Others were reportedly residents of nearby towns and villages or IS fighters who were suspected of spying by the group.  
The Kurdistan Security Council said six IS militants were detained during the raid, which was first reported by the New York Times. 
The mission was conducted alongside Kurdish commandos and utilised airstrikes to cut off roads leading to the prison, the Times reported. 
Iraqi forces and the US-led coalition have been ramping up the fight against IS in the region. 
Hawijah, which is under IS control, has been a flash point to operations in recent weeks, the Times reported. 
IS has been the target of daily airstrikes in Iraq and Syria by a US-led coalition for more than a year. 
