Choice warns banks against gouging customers to cover cost of industry changes after Murray inquiry 
By business reporter Elysse Morgan 
Updated October 20, 2015 17:46:43 
Map: Australia 
Consumer advocates say banks do not need to gouge customers to cover costs raised by the Government's proposed changes to banking and superannuation system. 
Bank customers will face lower credit card fees but potentially pay more for other bank services as a result of the financial systems inquiry by former Commonwealth Bank chief executive David Murray. 
The Federal Government welcomed all but one of the recommendations of the inquiry, endorsing the push for banks to hold more funds to cushion against future crises. 
Australian Bankers' Association boss Steven Munchenberg said it would make banks stronger.  
"But there are also additional costs for banks so they are going to be passed on in part to shareholders, including our superannuation clients, or to customers, but it is up to the individual banks what they do," he said. 
He would not confirm whether he believed banks would just put up interest rates to raise the cash. 
Key points: 
Government accepts all but one of financial system review recommendations 
Moves to strengthen competition and generate stronger reserves for banks 
Flags crack down on unfair credit card surcharges 
Promises to place tougher controls on financial advisers 
Alan Kirkland from consumer advocate group Choice said such a move was not necessary. 
"We would agree with the comments of the Treasurer last week that Westpac is taking a bit of a lend of us," he said. 
"The cost of increased stability in the system [will] in no way go as high as what Westpac has passed on and no other institution should be following that step. 
"The banks have got to be reasonable." 
The Government also embraced the inquiry's call for a cap on credit card fees to something that reflected the "fair-dinkum" cost of providing the service. 
"We've seen outrageous surcharges over the years and we'll finally have a regulator with the teeth to knock them out of the system," Mr Kirkland said, adding that consumers would collectively save hundreds of millions of dollars as a result of the changes. 
"We know that a reasonable surcharge is less that 2 per cent in most cases, but we've seen big businesses like Qantas and Virgin charging as much as 17 per cent on some transactions." 
Qantas and Virgin are yet to comment. 
MasterCard issued a statement saying the Government had missed an opportunity to ban surcharging all together, which it estimated cost Australians $1.6 billion each year. 
The Greens are pushing for ATM fees to be included in the crackdown on fees and surcharges, but Mr Munchenberg told the ABC the banks would fight this. 
"We have and we will continue to push against it," he said. 
Super industry changes welcomed by Financial Services Council 
Choice also welcomed the Government putting commissions across the industry in the firing line. 
"We've seen them knocked out of financial advice and now the Government is going to crack down on commissions in life insurance and get ASIC to investigate the role of commissions in mortgage broking," Mr Kirkland said. 
"We know that commissions mean that consumers get bad advice because they encourage advisers to put their interests ahead of the consumer."  
A shake-up of the superannuation industry has unsurprisingly been welcomed by the Financial Services Council, which likes the Government's commitment to open up the default super system to bank-owned funds. 
Under the changes, union-negotiated enterprise agreements will no longer have the power to mandate the use of one particular fund, which are usually union-aligned industry funds.  
"This will inject much-needed competition in the industry and will lead to lower fees," FSC chief Sally Loane said in a statement. 
She cited research that showed the average MySuper fees at 0.92 per cent were higher than some no-frills bank funds. 
Changes to make system fairer and more transparent 
The Government announced the Productivity Commission had been tasked with developing alternative models for allocating default fund members. 
"We will also work closely with industry to provide retirees with more flexible and reliable retirement income products and move to extend the choice of fund arrangements to more employees by the Inquiry," Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said. 
The overwhelming message from lobby groups is that the changes should make the whole financial system fairer and more transparent. 
The Customer Owned Banking Association believes the recommendations form a blueprint for major reform.  
"These measures will unleash genuine, sustainable competition in retail banking," COBA chief Mark Degotardi said. 
He said he believed the measures reduced the advantages the larger banks have over their smaller counterparts, would increase competition, and lead to better outcomes for consumers. 
First posted October 20, 2015 15:01:40 
Top Stories 
